README.md, before:

# k6-cucumber-steps 🥒🧪

<table align="center" style="margin-bottom:30px;"><tr><td align="center" width="9999" heigth="9999" >
 <img src="assets/paschal logo (2).png" alt="paschal Logo" style="margin-top:25px;" align="center"/>
</td></tr></table>

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/k6-cucumber-steps.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/k6-cucumber-steps)
[![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dt/k6-cucumber-steps.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/k6-cucumber-steps)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/k6-cucumber-steps)](https://github.com/qaPaschalE/k6-cucumber-steps/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![Cucumber](https://img.shields.io/badge/built%20with-Cucumber-3178c6.svg)](https://cucumber.io/)
[![Node.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/node-%3E=18-green.svg)](https://nodejs.org/)
[![Sponsor](https://img.shields.io/github/sponsors/qaPaschalE?style=social)](https://github.com/sponsors/qaPaschalE)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/qaPaschalE/k6-cucumber-steps/actions/workflows/k6-load-test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/aPaschalE/k6-cucumber-steps/actions/workflows/k6-load-test.yml)

Run [k6](https://k6.io/) performance/load tests using [Cucumber](https://cucumber.io/) BDD syntax with ease.

---

## ✨ Features

- ✅ Cucumber + Gherkin for writing k6 tests
- ✅ Support for JSON body parsing and escaping
- ✅ Faker support (`{{faker.name.firstName}}`)
- ✅ `.env` + `K6.env`-style variable resolution (`{{API_KEY}}`)
- ✅ Support for headers, query params, stages
- ✅ Clean-up of temporary k6 files after execution
- ✅ Built-in support for **distributed load testing** with stages
- ✅ TypeScript-first 🧡

---

## 📦 Install

```bash
npm install k6-cucumber-steps
```

## 🚀 Usage

### CLI

```bash
npx k6-cucumber-steps run [options]
```

#### Options

The `run` command accepts the following options:

- `-f, --feature <path>`: Path to the feature file to execute.
- `-t, --tags <string>`: Cucumber tags to filter scenarios (e.g., `@smoke and not @regression`).
- `-r, --reporter`: Generate HTML and JSON reports in the `reports` directory. This is a boolean flag, so just include `-r` or `--reporter` to enable it.

### Example Usage with Options

```bash
npx k6-cucumber-steps run --feature ./features/my_feature.feature --tags "@load and not @wip" --reporter
```

---

## 🛠️ Getting Started

Here's a step-by-step guide to using `k6-cucumber-steps` in your project:

**Prerequisites:**

1.  **Node.js and npm (or yarn):** Ensure you have Node.js and npm (or yarn) installed.
2.  **k6:** Install k6 on your system following the instructions at [k6.io/docs/getting-started/installation/](https://www.google.com/search?q=https://k6.io/docs/getting-started/installation/).
3.  **@cucumber/cucumber:(optional)** This package is required for using Cucumber.
4.  **cucumber-html-reporter:(optional)** This package is needed if you intend to generate detailed HTML reports

**Setup:**

1.  **Create a new project:**

    ```bash
    mkdir my-performance-test
    cd my-performance-test
    npm init -y
    # or
    yarn init -y
    ```

2.  **Install dependencies:**

    ```bash
    npm install --save-dev @cucumber/cucumber k6 dotenv k6-cucumber-steps cucumber-html-reporter
    # or
    yarn add --dev @cucumber/cucumber k6 dotenv k6-cucumber-steps cucumber-html-reporter
    ```

3.  **Create `.env` file (optional):** Create a `.env` file in your project root for environment variables as described in the "Environment Variables" section below.

4.  **Create `features` directory and feature files:**

    ```bash
    mkdir features
    # Create your .feature files inside the features directory (e.g., example.feature)
    ```

5.  **Configure `cucumber.js`:**
    Create a `cucumber.js` file at the root of your project with the following content:

    ```javascript
    // cucumber.js
    require("dotenv").config();

    module.exports = {
      require: [
        // You can add paths to your local step definitions here if needed
      ],
      format: [
        "summary",
        "json:reports/load-report.json", // For JSON report
        "html:reports/report.html", // For HTML report (requires @cucumber/html-formatter)
      ],
      tags: process.env.TAGS,
    };
    ```

**Running Tests:**

From the root of your project, use the CLI command:

```bash
npx k6-cucumber-steps run
```

You can also specify a feature file or tags:

```bash
npx k6-cucumber-steps run --feature features/example.feature -t "@yourTag"
```

---

## Setup (Detailed)

1.  **Environment Variables**: Create a `.env` file in your project root based on the provided `.env.example`:

    ```env
    BASE_URL=[https://api.example.com](https://api.example.com)
    API_KEY=your_api_key
    BEARER_TOKEN=your_bearer_token
    BASIC_USER=your_basic_user
    BASIC_PASS=your_basic_pass
    TAGS=@yourTag
    ```

2.  **Feature Files**: Write your feature files using the provided step definitions.

## Gherkin Examples

Here’s how you can write a feature file using the provided step definitions:

### Example 1: Test GET Endpoint with No Authentication

```gherkin
Feature: API Performance Testing

  Scenario: Run load tests with dynamic GET requests
    Given I set a k6 script for GET testing
    When I set to run the k6 script with the following configurations:
      | virtual_users | duration | http_req_failed | http_req_duration |
      | 50            | 10       | rate<0.05       | p(95)<3000        |
    And I set the following endpoint(s) used:
      """
      /api/profile
      [https://reqres.in/api/users?page=2](https://reqres.in/api/users?page=2)
      """
    And when the authentication type is "none"
    Then I see the API should handle the GET request successfully
```

### Example 2: Test POST Endpoint with Bearer Token Authentication

```gherkin
Feature: API Performance Testing

  Scenario: Run load tests with dynamic POST requests
    Given I set a k6 script for POST testing
    When I set to run the k6 script with the following configurations:
      | virtual_users | duration | http_req_failed | http_req_duration |
      | 20            | 60       | rate<0.01       | p(95)<300         |
    And the authentication type is "bearer_token"
    And I set the following endpoint(s) used:
      """
      /api/v1/users
      """
    And I set the following POST body is used for "/api/v1/users"
      """
      {
        "username": "{{username}}",
        "email": "{{faker.internet.email}}"
      }
      """
    Then I see the API should handle the POST request successfully
```

## Step Definitions

### Authentication Steps

```gherkin
When I set the authentication type is "api_key"
When I set the authentication type is "bearer_token"
When I set the authentication type is "basic"
When I set the authentication type is "none"
```

### Request Configuration Steps

```gherkin
Given I set a k6 script for {word} testing
When I set to run the k6 script with the following configurations:
When I set the request headers:
When I set the following endpoint(s) used:
When I set the following {word} body is used for {string}
```

### Assertion Steps

```gherkin
Then I see the API should handle the {word} request successfully
```

## Test Results

Below is an example of the Cucumber report generated after running the tests:
<img src="assets/k6-cucumber-report.png" alt="Cucumber report generated after running the tests" width="60%" />
<img src="assets/k6-cucumber-report2.png" alt="Cucumber report generated after running the tests" width="60%" />

### Explanation of the Report

- **All Scenarios**: Total number of scenarios executed.
- **Passed Scenarios**: Number of scenarios that passed.
- **Failed Scenarios**: Number of scenarios that failed.
- **Metadata**: Information about the test environment (e.g., browser, platform).
- **Feature Overview**: Summary of the feature being tested.
- **Scenario Details**: Detailed steps and their execution status.

## 🧼 Temporary Files Clean-up

All generated k6 scripts and artifacts are cleaned automatically after test execution.

---

## 💖 Support

If you find this package useful, consider [sponsoring me on GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/qaPaschalE). Your support helps me maintain and improve this project!

## 📄 License

MIT License - [@qaPaschalE](https://github.com/qaPaschalE)

```


## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.


```

Commit message:

updated reporter options for overwrite short hand and readme

README.md, after:

# k6-cucumber-steps 🥒🧪

<table align="center" style="margin-bottom:30px;"><tr><td align="center" width="9999" heigth="9999" >
 <img src="assets/paschal logo (2).png" alt="paschal Logo" style="margin-top:25px;" align="center"/>
</td></tr></table>

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/k6-cucumber-steps.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/k6-cucumber-steps)
[![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dt/k6-cucumber-steps.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/k6-cucumber-steps)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/k6-cucumber-steps)](https://github.com/qaPaschalE/k6-cucumber-steps/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![Cucumber](https://img.shields.io/badge/built%20with-Cucumber-3178c6.svg)](https://cucumber.io/)
[![Node.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/node-%3E=18-green.svg)](https://nodejs.org/)
[![Sponsor](https://img.shields.io/github/sponsors/qaPaschalE?style=social)](https://github.com/sponsors/qaPaschalE)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/qaPaschalE/k6-cucumber-steps/actions/workflows/k6-load-test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/aPaschalE/k6-cucumber-steps/actions/workflows/k6-load-test.yml)

Run [k6](https://k6.io/) performance/load tests using [Cucumber](https://cucumber.io/) BDD syntax with ease.

---

## ✨ Features

- ✅ Cucumber + Gherkin for writing k6 tests
  to generate JSON and HTML reports.
- ✅ Flexible configuration through Cucumber data tables.
- ✅ Support for JSON body parsing and escaping
- ✅ Dynamic request body generation using environment variables, Faker templates, and JSON file includes.
- ✅ `.env` + `K6.env`-style variable resolution (`{{API_KEY}}`)
- ✅ Support for headers, query params, stages
- ✅ Supports multiple authentication types: API key, Bearer token, Basic Auth, and No Auth.

- ✅ Clean-up of temporary k6 files after execution
- ✅ Built-in support for **distributed load testing** with stages
- ✅ TypeScript-first 🧡
- ✅ **Optional report overwriting**: Use the `overwrite` option to control whether reports are overwritten or appended.
- ✅ **Generate detailed reports**: Use the `--reporter` flag

---

## 📦 Install

```bash
npm install k6-cucumber-steps
```

## 🚀 Usage

### CLI

```bash
npx k6-cucumber-steps run [options]
```

#### Options

The `run` command accepts the following options:

- `-f, --feature <path>`: Path to the feature file to execute.
- `-t, --tags <string>`: Cucumber tags to filter scenarios (e.g., `@smoke and not @regression`).
- `-r, --reporter`: Generate HTML and JSON reports in the `reports` directory. This is a boolean flag, so just include `-r, --reporter` to enable it.
- `-o, --overwrite`: Overwrite existing reports instead of appending them.

### Example Usage with Options

```bash
npx k6-cucumber-steps run --feature ./features/my_feature.feature --tags "@load and not @wip" --reporter
```

---

## 🛠️ Getting Started

Here's a step-by-step guide to using `k6-cucumber-steps` in your project:

**Prerequisites:**

1.  **Node.js and npm (or yarn):** Ensure you have Node.js and npm (or yarn) installed.
2.  **k6:** Install k6 on your system following the instructions at [k6.io/docs/getting-started/installation/](https://www.google.com/search?q=https://k6.io/docs/getting-started/installation/).
3.  **@cucumber/cucumber:(optional)** This package is required for using Cucumber.
4.  **cucumber-html-reporter:(optional)** This package is needed if you intend to generate detailed HTML reports

**Setup:**

1.  **Create a new project:**

    ```bash
    mkdir my-performance-test
    cd my-performance-test
    npm init -y
    # or
    yarn init -y
    ```

2.  **Install dependencies:**

    ```bash
    npm install --save-dev @cucumber/cucumber k6 dotenv k6-cucumber-steps cucumber-html-reporter
    # or
    yarn add --dev @cucumber/cucumber k6 dotenv k6-cucumber-steps cucumber-html-reporter
    ```

3.  **Create `.env` file (optional):** Create a `.env` file in your project root for environment variables as described in the "Environment Variables" section below.

4.  **Create `features` directory and feature files:**

    ```bash
    mkdir features
    # Create your .feature files inside the features directory (e.g., example.feature)
    ```

5.  **Configure `cucumber.js`:**
    Create a `cucumber.js` file at the root of your project with the following content:

    ```javascript
    // cucumber.js
    require("dotenv").config();

    module.exports = {
      require: [
        // You can add paths to your local step definitions here if needed
      ],
      format: [
        "summary",
        "json:reports/load-report.json", // For JSON report
        "html:reports/report.html", // For HTML report (requires @cucumber/html-formatter)
      ],
      tags: process.env.TAGS,
      overwrite: false, // Default to not overwrite the report file
    };
    ```

**Running Tests:**

From the root of your project, use the CLI command:

```bash
npx k6-cucumber-steps run
```

You can also specify a feature file or tags:

```bash
npx k6-cucumber-steps run --feature features/example.feature -t "@yourTag"
```

---

## Setup (Detailed)

1.  **Environment Variables**: Create a `.env` file in your project root based on the provided `.env.example`:

    ```env
    BASE_URL=[https://api.example.com](https://api.example.com)
    API_KEY=your_api_key
    BEARER_TOKEN=your_bearer_token
    BASIC_USER=your_basic_user
    BASIC_PASS=your_basic_pass
    TAGS=@yourTag
    ```

2.  **Feature Files**: Write your feature files using the provided step definitions.

## Gherkin Examples

Here’s how you can write a feature file using the provided step definitions:

### Example 1: Test GET Endpoint with No Authentication

```gherkin
Feature: API Performance Testing

  Scenario: Run load tests with dynamic GET requests
    Given I set a k6 script for GET testing
    When I set to run the k6 script with the following configurations:
      | virtual_users | duration | http_req_failed | http_req_duration |
      | 50            | 10       | rate<0.05       | p(95)<3000        |
    And I set the following endpoint(s) used:
      """
      /api/profile
      [https://reqres.in/api/users?page=2](https://reqres.in/api/users?page=2)
      """
    And when the authentication type is "none"
    Then I see the API should handle the GET request successfully
```

### Example 2: Test POST Endpoint with Bearer Token Authentication

```gherkin
Feature: API Performance Testing

  Scenario: Run load tests with dynamic POST requests
    Given I set a k6 script for POST testing
    When I set to run the k6 script with the following configurations:
      | virtual_users | duration | http_req_failed | http_req_duration |
      | 20            | 60       | rate<0.01       | p(95)<300         |
    And the authentication type is "bearer_token"
    And I set the following endpoint(s) used:
      """
      /api/v1/users
      """
    And I set the following POST body is used for "/api/v1/users"
      """
      {
        "username": "{{username}}",
        "email": "{{faker.internet.email}}"
      }
      """
    Then I see the API should handle the POST request successfully
```

## Step Definitions

### Authentication Steps

```gherkin
When I set the authentication type is "api_key"
When I set the authentication type is "bearer_token"
When I set the authentication type is "basic"
When I set the authentication type is "none"
```

### Request Configuration Steps

```gherkin
Given I set a k6 script for {word} testing
When I set to run the k6 script with the following configurations:
When I set the request headers:
When I set the following endpoint(s) used:
When I set the following {word} body is used for {string}
```

### Assertion Steps

```gherkin
Then I see the API should handle the {word} request successfully
```

## Test Results

Below is an example of the Cucumber report generated after running the tests:
<img src="assets/k6-cucumber-report.png" alt="Cucumber report generated after running the tests" width="60%" />
<img src="assets/k6-cucumber-report2.png" alt="Cucumber report generated after running the tests" width="60%" />

### Explanation of the Report

- **All Scenarios**: Total number of scenarios executed.
- **Passed Scenarios**: Number of scenarios that passed.
- **Failed Scenarios**: Number of scenarios that failed.
- **Metadata**: Information about the test environment (e.g., browser, platform).
- **Feature Overview**: Summary of the feature being tested.
- **Scenario Details**: Detailed steps and their execution status.

## 🧼 Temporary Files Clean-up

All generated k6 scripts and artifacts are cleaned automatically after test execution.

---

## 💖 Support

If you find this package useful, consider [sponsoring me on GitHub](https://github.com/sponsors/qaPaschalE). Your support helps me maintain and improve this project!

## 📄 License

MIT License - [@qaPaschalE](https://github.com/qaPaschalE)

```


## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.


```
